Built-In Scalar SQL Functions
Small. Fast. Reliable.Choose any three.
Home
Menu
About
Documentation
Download
License
Support
Purchase
Search
About
Documentation
Download
Support
Purchase
Search Documentation
Search Changelog
Built-In Scalar SQL Functions
1. Overview
The core functions shown below are available by default. 
Date & Time functions,
aggregate functions,
window functions,
math functions, and
JSON functions are documented separately.  An
application may define additional
functions written in C and added to the database engine using
the sqlite3_create_function() API.
simple-function-invocation:
See the functions within expressions documentation for
more information about how SQL function invocations fit into the context
of an SQL expression.
2. List Of Core Functions
abs(X)
changes()
char(X1,X2,...,XN)
coalesce(X,Y,...)
concat(X,...)
concat_ws(SEP,X,...)
format(FORMAT,...)
glob(X,Y)
hex(X)
if(B1,V1,...)
ifnull(X,Y)
iif(B1,V1,...)
instr(X,Y)
last_insert_rowid()
length(X)
like(X,Y)
like(X,Y,Z)
likelihood(X,Y)
likely(X)
load_extension(X)
load_extension(X,Y)
lower(X)
ltrim(X)
ltrim(X,Y)
max(X,Y,...)
min(X,Y,...)
nullif(X,Y)
octet_length(X)
printf(FORMAT,...)
quote(X)
random()
randomblob(N)
replace(X,Y,Z)
round(X)
round(X,Y)
rtrim(X)
rtrim(X,Y)
sign(X)
soundex(X)
sqlite_compileoption_get(N)
sqlite_compileoption_used(X)
sqlite_offset(X)
sqlite_source_id()
sqlite_version()
substr(X,Y)
substr(X,Y,Z)
substring(X,Y)
substring(X,Y,Z)
total_changes()
trim(X)
trim(X,Y)
typeof(X)
unhex(X)
unhex(X,Y)
unicode(X)
unistr(X)
unistr_quote(X)
unlikely(X)
upper(X)
zeroblob(N)
3. Descriptions of built-in scalar SQL functions
abs(X)
  The abs(X) function returns the absolute value of the numeric
  argument X.  Abs(X) returns NULL if X is NULL.
  Abs(X) returns 0.0 if X is a string or blob
  that cannot be converted to a numeric value.  If X is the
  integer -9223372036854775808 then abs(X) throws an integer overflow
  error since there is no equivalent positive 64-bit two's complement value.
changes()
  The changes() function returns the number of database rows that were changed
  or inserted or deleted by the most recently completed INSERT, DELETE,
  or UPDATE statement, exclusive of statements in lower-level triggers.
  The changes() SQL function is a wrapper around the sqlite3_changes64()
  C/C++ function and hence follows the same rules for counting changes.
char(X1,X2,...,XN)
  The char(X1,X2,...,XN) function returns a string composed of characters having the
   unicode code point values of integers X1 through XN, respectively.
coalesce(X,Y,...)
  The coalesce() function returns a copy of its first non-NULL argument, or
  NULL if all arguments are NULL.  Coalesce() must have at least 
  2 arguments.
concat(X,...)
  The concat(...) function returns a string which is the concatenation of the
  string representation of all of its non-NULL arguments.  If all arguments are
  NULL, then concat() returns an empty string.
concat_ws(SEP,X,...)
  The concat_ws(SEP,...) function returns a string that is the concatenation of
  all non-null arguments beyond the first argument, using the text value of the
  first argument as a separator.  If the first argument is NULL, then concat_ws()
  returns NULL.  If all arguments other than the first are NULL, then concat_ws()
  returns an empty string.
format(FORMAT,...)
  The format(FORMAT,...) SQL function works like the sqlite3_mprintf() C-language
  function and the printf() function from the standard C library.
  The first argument is a format string that specifies how to construct the output
  string using values taken from subsequent arguments.  If the FORMAT argument is
  missing or NULL then the result is NULL.  The %n format is silently ignored and
  does not consume an argument.  The %p format is an alias for %X.  The %z format
  is interchangeable with %s.  If there are too few arguments in the argument list,
  missing arguments are assumed to have a NULL value, which is translated into
  0 or 0.0 for numeric formats or an empty string for %s.  See the
  built-in printf() documentation for additional information.
glob(X,Y)
  The glob(X,Y) function is equivalent to the
  expression "Y GLOB X".
  Note that the X and Y arguments are reversed in the glob() function
  relative to the infix GLOB operator.  Y is the string and X is the
  pattern.  So, for example, the following expressions are equivalent:
     name GLOB '*helium*'
     glob('*helium*',name)
  If the sqlite3_create_function() interface is used to
  override the glob(X,Y) function with an alternative implementation then
  the GLOB operator will invoke the alternative implementation.
hex(X)
  The hex() function interprets its argument as a BLOB and returns
  a string which is the upper-case hexadecimal rendering of the content of
  that blob.
  If the argument X in "hex(X)" is an
  integer or floating point number, then "interprets its argument as a BLOB" means
  that the binary number is first converted into a UTF8 text representation, then
  that text is interpreted as a BLOB.  Hence, "hex(12345678)" renders
  as "3132333435363738" not the binary representation of the integer value
  "0000000000BC614E".
  See also:  unhex()
ifnull(X,Y)
  The ifnull() function returns a copy of its first non-NULL argument, or
  NULL if both arguments are NULL.  Ifnull() must have exactly 2 arguments.
  The ifnull() function is equivalent to coalesce() with two arguments.
iif(B1,V1,...)if(B1,V1,...)
  The iif(B1,V1,...,BN,VN) function takes arguments in pairs.  The first argument of each
  pair is a Boolean and the second argument is a value to return if the Boolean is true.
  The iif() function returns the value associated with the first true Boolean.
  If the number of arguments to iif() is odd, then the last argument is a value that
  returned if all prior Boolean arguments are false.
  If the number of arguments is even and all Boolean arguments are false, then NULL
  is returned.
  The iif() function requires at least two arguments.
  The iif() function is really a short-hand notation for a CASE expression.
  For example,
  the iif(X,Y,Z) function is logically equivalent to and generates the same
  bytecode as the CASE expression "CASE WHEN X THEN Y ELSE Z END".
  The if() function is just an alternative spelling for iif().
  The iif() function uses short-circuit evaluation.  Arguments are only
  evaluated if necessary to compute the final result.  So, for example, if one
  of the value arguments involves an expensive computation (such as an elaborate
  subquery) but the corresponding Boolean is false, the expensive computation never
  occurs.  Similarly, Boolean arguments past the first one that is true are never
  evaluated.
  The iif() function originally required exactly three arguments.
  The two-argument version of iif() and the ability to spell the function as "if()"
  were features added in SQLite version 3.48.0 (2025-01-14)
  The ability to accept more than 3 arguments was added in
  SQLite version 3.49.0 (2025-02-06).
instr(X,Y)
  The instr(X,Y) function finds the first occurrence of string Y within 
  string X and returns the number of prior characters plus 1, or 0 if
  Y is nowhere found within X.
  Or, if X and Y are both BLOBs, then instr(X,Y) returns one
  more than the number of bytes prior to the first occurrence of Y, or 0 if
  Y does not occur anywhere within X.
  If both arguments X and Y to instr(X,Y) are non-NULL and are not BLOBs
  then both are interpreted as strings.
  If either X or Y are NULL in instr(X,Y) then the result is NULL.
last_insert_rowid()
  The last_insert_rowid() function returns the ROWID
  of the last row insert from the database connection which invoked the
  function.
  The last_insert_rowid() SQL function is a wrapper around the
  sqlite3_last_insert_rowid() C/C++ interface function.
length(X)
  For a string value X, the length(X) function returns the number of 
  Unicode code points (not bytes) in input string X prior to the first U+0000
  character.
  Since SQLite strings do not normally contain NUL characters, the length(X)
  function will usually return the total number of characters in the string X.
  For a blob value X, length(X) returns the number of bytes in the blob.
  If X is NULL then length(X) is NULL.
  If X is numeric then length(X) returns the length of a string
  representation of X.
  Note that for strings, the length(X) function returns the character
  or code-point
  length of the string, not the byte length.  The character length is the number
  of characters in the string.  The character length is always different from
  the byte length for UTF-16 strings, and can be different from the byte length
  for UTF-8 strings if the string contains multi-byte characters.  Use the
  octet_length() function to find the byte length of a string.
  For BLOB values, length(X) always returns the byte-length of the BLOB.
  For string values, length(X) must read the entire string into memory in order
  to compute the character length.  But for BLOB values, reading the whole string
  into memory is not necessary as SQLite already
  knows how many bytes are in the BLOB.  Hence, for multi-megabyte values,
  the length(X) function is usually much faster for BLOBs than for strings, since
  it does not need to load the value into memory.
like(X,Y)like(X,Y,Z)
  The like() function is used to implement the
  "Y LIKE X [ESCAPE Z]" expression. 
  If the optional ESCAPE clause is present, then the
  like() function is invoked with three arguments.  Otherwise, it is
  invoked with two arguments only. Note that the X and Y parameters are
  reversed in the like() function relative to the infix LIKE operator.
  X is the pattern and Y is the string to match against that pattern.
  Hence, the following expressions are equivalent:
     name LIKE '%neon%'
     like('%neon%',name)
  The sqlite3_create_function() interface can be used to override the
  like() function and thereby change the operation of the
  LIKE operator.  When overriding the like() function, it may be important
  to override both the two and three argument versions of the like() 
  function. Otherwise, different code may be called to implement the
  LIKE operator depending on whether or not an ESCAPE clause was 
  specified.
likelihood(X,Y)
  The likelihood(X,Y) function returns argument X unchanged.
  The value Y in likelihood(X,Y) must be a floating point constant
  between 0.0 and 1.0, inclusive.
  The likelihood(X) function is a no-op that the code generator
  optimizes away so that it consumes no CPU cycles during run-time
  (that is, during calls to sqlite3_step()).
  The purpose of the likelihood(X,Y) function is to provide a hint
  to the query planner that the argument X is a boolean that is
  true with a probability of approximately Y.
  The unlikely(X) function is short-hand for likelihood(X,0.0625).
  The likely(X) function is short-hand for likelihood(X,0.9375).
likely(X)
  The likely(X) function returns the argument X unchanged.
  The likely(X) function is a no-op that the code generator
  optimizes away so that it consumes no CPU cycles at
  run-time (that is, during calls to sqlite3_step()).
  The purpose of the likely(X) function is to provide a hint
  to the query planner that the argument X is a boolean value
  that is usually true. The likely(X) function is equivalent
  to likelihood(X,0.9375). See also: unlikely(X).
load_extension(X)load_extension(X,Y)
  The load_extension(X,Y) function loads SQLite extensions out of the shared
  library file named X using the entry point Y.  The result of load_extension()
  is always a NULL.  If Y is omitted then the default entry point name is used.
  The load_extension() function raises an exception if the extension fails to
  load or initialize correctly.
  The load_extension() function will fail if the extension attempts to 
  modify or delete an SQL function or collating sequence.  The
  extension can add new functions or collating sequences, but cannot
  modify or delete existing functions or collating sequences because
  those functions and/or collating sequences might be used elsewhere
  in the currently running SQL statement.  To load an extension that
  changes or deletes functions or collating sequences, use the
  sqlite3_load_extension() C-language API.
  For security reasons, extension loading is disabled by default and must
  be enabled by a prior call to sqlite3_enable_load_extension().
lower(X)
  The lower(X) function returns a copy of string X with all ASCII characters
  converted to lower case.  The default built-in lower() function works
  for ASCII characters only.  To do case conversions on non-ASCII
  characters, load the ICU extension.
ltrim(X)ltrim(X,Y)
  The ltrim(X,Y) function returns a string formed by removing any and all
  characters that appear in Y from the left side of X.
  If the Y argument is omitted, ltrim(X) removes spaces from the left side
  of X.
max(X,Y,...)
  The multi-argument max() function returns the argument with the 
  maximum value, or return NULL if any argument is NULL. 
  The multi-argument max() function searches its arguments from left to right
  for an argument that defines a collating function and uses that collating
  function for all string comparisons.  If none of the arguments to max()
  define a collating function, then the BINARY collating function is used.
  Note that max() is a simple function when
  it has 2 or more arguments but operates as an
  aggregate function if given only a single argument.
min(X,Y,...)
  The multi-argument min() function returns the argument with the
  minimum value.
  The multi-argument min() function searches its arguments from left to right
  for an argument that defines a collating function and uses that collating
  function for all string comparisons.  If none of the arguments to min()
  define a collating function, then the BINARY collating function is used.
  Note that min() is a simple function when
  it has 2 or more arguments but operates as an 
  aggregate function if given
  only a single argument.
nullif(X,Y)
  The nullif(X,Y) function returns its first argument if the arguments are
  different and NULL if the arguments are the same.  The nullif(X,Y) function
  searches its arguments from left to right for an argument that defines a
  collating function and uses that collating function for all string
  comparisons.  If neither argument to nullif() defines a collating function
  then the BINARY collating function is used.
octet_length(X)
  The octet_length(X) function returns the number of bytes in the encoding
  of text string X.  If X is NULL then octet_length(X) returns NULL.  If X is
  a BLOB value, then octet_length(X) is the same as length(X).  If X is a
  numeric value, then octet_length(X) returns the number of bytes in a text
  rendering of that number.
  Because octet_length(X) returns the number of bytes in X, not the number
  of characters or code-points, the value returned depends on the database
  encoding.  The
  octet_length() function can return different answers for the same input string
  if the database encoding is UTF16 instead of UTF8.
  If argument X is a table column and the value is of type text or blob,
  then octet_length(X) avoids reading the content of X from disk, as the byte
  length can be computed from metadata.  Thus, octet_length(X) is efficient
  even if X is a column containing a multi-megabyte text or blob value.
printf(FORMAT,...)
  The printf() SQL function is an alias for the format() SQL function.
  The format() SQL function was originally named printf(). But the name was
  later changed to format() for compatibility with other database engines.
  The printf() name is retained as an alias so as not to break legacy code.
quote(X)
  The quote(X) function returns the text of an SQL literal which
  is the value of its argument suitable for inclusion into an SQL statement.
  Strings are surrounded by single-quotes with escapes on interior quotes
  as needed.  BLOBs are encoded as hexadecimal literals.
  Strings with embedded NUL characters cannot be represented as string
  literals in SQL and hence the returned string literal is truncated prior
  to the first NUL.
  The unistr_quote(X) function works like quote(X) except that it
  also escapes control characters.
random()
  The random() function returns a pseudo-random integer
  between -9223372036854775807 and +9223372036854775807.
  The random() function deliberately avoids generating
  -9223372036854775808 so that its value can always be passed
  to abs().  The random() function has behaved this way
  since version 3.3.5 (circa 2006) but this documentation
  incorrectly stated that -9223372036854775808 was a possible
  result until 2025-07-25.
randomblob(N)
  The randomblob(N) function return an N-byte blob containing pseudo-random
  bytes. If N is less than 1 then a 1-byte random blob is returned.
  Hint:  applications can generate globally unique identifiers
  using this function together with hex() and/or
  lower() like this:
  hex(randomblob(16))
  lower(hex(randomblob(16)))
replace(X,Y,Z)
  The replace(X,Y,Z) function returns a string formed by substituting
  string Z for every occurrence of string Y in string X.  The BINARY
  collating sequence is used for comparisons.  If Y is an empty
  string then return X unchanged.  If Z is not initially
  a string, it is cast to a UTF-8 string prior to processing.
round(X)round(X,Y)
  The round(X,Y) function returns a floating-point
  value X rounded to Y digits to the right of the decimal point.
  If the Y argument is omitted or negative, it is taken to be 0.
rtrim(X)rtrim(X,Y)
  The rtrim(X,Y) function returns a string formed by removing any and all
  characters that appear in Y from the right side of X.
  If the Y argument is omitted, rtrim(X) removes spaces from the right
  side of X.
sign(X)
  The sign(X) function returns -1, 0, or +1 if the argument X is a numeric
  value that is negative, zero, or positive, respectively.  If the argument
  to sign(X) is NULL or is a string or blob that cannot be losslessly converted
  into a number, then sign(X) returns NULL.
soundex(X)
  The soundex(X) function returns a string that is the soundex encoding 
  of the string X.
  The string "?000" is returned if the argument is NULL or contains
  no ASCII alphabetic characters.
  This function is omitted from SQLite by default.
  It is only available if the SQLITE_SOUNDEX compile-time option
  is used when SQLite is built.
sqlite_compileoption_get(N)
  The sqlite_compileoption_get() SQL function is a wrapper around the
  sqlite3_compileoption_get() C/C++ function.
  This routine returns the N-th compile-time option used to build SQLite
  or NULL if N is out of range.  See also the compile_options pragma.
sqlite_compileoption_used(X)
  The sqlite_compileoption_used() SQL function is a wrapper around the
  sqlite3_compileoption_used() C/C++ function.
  When the argument X to sqlite_compileoption_used(X) is a string which
  is the name of a compile-time option, this routine returns true (1) or
  false (0) depending on whether or not that option was used during the
  build.
sqlite_offset(X)
  The sqlite_offset(X) function returns the byte offset in the database
  file for the beginning of the record from which value would be read.
  If X is not a column in an ordinary table, then sqlite_offset(X) returns
  NULL.  The value returned by sqlite_offset(X) might reference either the
  original table or an index, depending on the query.  If the value X would
  normally be extracted from an index, the sqlite_offset(X) returns the
  offset to the corresponding index record.  If the value X would be
  extracted from the original table, then sqlite_offset(X) returns the offset
  to the table record.
  The sqlite_offset(X) SQL function is only available if SQLite is built
  using the -DSQLITE_ENABLE_OFFSET_SQL_FUNC compile-time option.
sqlite_source_id()
  The sqlite_source_id() function returns a string that identifies the
  specific version of the source code that was used to build the SQLite
  library.  The string returned by sqlite_source_id() is
  the date and time that the source code was checked in followed by
  the SHA3-256 hash for that check-in.  This function is
  an SQL wrapper around the sqlite3_sourceid() C interface.
sqlite_version()
  The sqlite_version() function returns the version string for the SQLite
  library that is running.  This function is an SQL
  wrapper around the sqlite3_libversion() C-interface.
substr(X,Y,Z)substr(X,Y)substring(X,Y,Z)substring(X,Y)
  The substr(X,Y,Z) function returns a substring of input string X that begins
  with the Y-th character and which is Z characters long.
  If Z is omitted then substr(X,Y) returns all characters through the end
  of the string X beginning with the Y-th.
  The left-most character of X is number 1.  If Y is negative
  then the first character of the substring is found by counting from the
  right rather than the left.  If Z is negative then
  the abs(Z) characters preceding the Y-th character are returned.
  If X is a string then characters indices refer to actual UTF-8 
  characters.  If X is a BLOB then the indices refer to bytes.
  "substring()" is an alias for "substr()" beginning with SQLite version 3.34.
total_changes()
  The total_changes() function returns the number of row changes
  caused by INSERT, UPDATE or DELETE
  statements since the current database connection was opened.
  This function is a wrapper around the sqlite3_total_changes64()
  C/C++ interface.
trim(X)trim(X,Y)
  The trim(X,Y) function returns a string formed by removing any and all
  characters that appear in Y from both ends of X.
  If the Y argument is omitted, trim(X) removes spaces from both ends of X.
typeof(X)
  The typeof(X) function returns a string that indicates the datatype of
  the expression X: "null", "integer", "real", "text", or "blob".
unhex(X)unhex(X,Y)
  The unhex(X,Y) function returns a BLOB value which is the decoding of the
  hexadecimal string X.  If X contains any
  characters that are not hexadecimal digits and which are not in Y, 
  then unhex(X,Y) returns NULL. If Y is omitted, it is
  understood to be an empty string and hence X must be a pure hexadecimal string.
  All hexadecimal digits in X must occur in pairs, with both digits of each
  pair beginning immediately adjacent to one another, or else unhex(X,Y)
  returns NULL.
  If either parameter X or Y is NULL, then unhex(X,Y) returns NULL.
  The X input may contain an arbitrary mix of upper and lower case hexadecimal
  digits.
  Hexadecimal digits in Y have no affect on the translation of X.  Only
  characters in Y that are not hexadecimal digits are ignored in X.
  See also:  hex()
unicode(X)
  The unicode(X) function returns the numeric unicode code point corresponding to
  the first character of the string X.  If the argument to unicode(X) is not a string
  then the result is unspecified.
unistr(X)
  The unistr(X) function interprets backslash escapes in input string X and returns
  a new string with those escapes converted into the actual Unicode codepoints that
  they represent.  This function, added in SQLite version 3.50.0 (2025-05-29), is
  intended to work the same as in PostgreSQL, SQL Server, and Oracle.
  The PostgreSQL documentation says:
  "Unicode characters can be specified as \XXXX (4 hexadecimal digits), \+XXXXXX 
  (6 hexadecimal digits), \uXXXX (4 hexadecimal digits), or \UXXXXXXXX (8 hexadecimal
  digits). To specify a backslash, write two backslashes. All other characters are
  taken literally."
unistr_quote(X)
  The unistr_quote(X) function returns the text of an SQL literal or constant
  expression that encodes the value of its argument X and is suitable
  for inclusion into an SQL statement.  In most cases, the output of
  unistr_quote(X) is identical to quote(X).  However, if X is text that
  contains control characters in the range U+0001 through U+001f, then those
  characters and any "\" characters in X are escaped using JSON-style backslash
  escapes and the entire output is enclosed within "unistr(..)".
  This makes the resulting text safe for display on devices that interpret
  ANSI escape codes.
unlikely(X)
  The unlikely(X) function returns the argument X unchanged.
  The unlikely(X) function is a no-op that the code generator
  optimizes away so that it consumes no CPU cycles at
  run-time (that is, during calls to sqlite3_step()).
  The purpose of the unlikely(X) function is to provide a hint
  to the query planner that the argument X is a boolean value
  that is usually not true. The unlikely(X) function is equivalent
  to likelihood(X, 0.0625).
upper(X)
  The upper(X) function returns a copy of input string X in which all 
  lower-case ASCII characters are converted to their upper-case equivalent.
zeroblob(N)
  The zeroblob(N) function returns a BLOB consisting of N bytes of 0x00.
  SQLite manages these zeroblobs very efficiently.  Zeroblobs can be used to
  reserve space for a BLOB that is later written using 
  incremental BLOB I/O.
  This SQL function is implemented using the sqlite3_result_zeroblob()
  routine from the C/C++ interface.
This page last modified on  2025-09-04 08:56:53 UTC 